docs/SETUP_GUIDE.md, before:

# Boris Workflow Setup Guide

Step-by-step guide to set up the Boris Claude Code workflow for Python projects.

---

## Prerequisites

- [ ] Claude Code CLI installed (`claude` command works)
- [ ] Python 3.8+
- [ ] Git configured
- [ ] GitHub account

---

## Step 1: Install uv and Dependencies

```sh
# Install uv (fast Python package manager)
curl -LsSf https://astral.sh/uv/install.sh | sh

# Verify installation
uv --version

# Initialize project with dependencies
uv init
uv add --dev ruff pytest mypy

# Or sync from existing pyproject.toml
uv sync

# Verify installations
uv run ruff --version
uv run pytest --version
```

**Check:** Run `uv --version` - should show version number.

**Why uv?** 10-100x faster than pip, built-in virtual environment management, and lockfile for reproducible builds.

---

## Step 2: Set Up iTerm2 Notifications

1. Open iTerm2 → Preferences → Profiles → Terminal
2. Enable "Send notification when idle" or configure Shell Integration
3. See full guide: https://code.claude.com/docs/en/terminal-config#iterm-2-system-notifications

**Why:** Get notified when Claude needs input across 5 parallel tabs.

---

## Step 3: Configure GitHub Token

For GitHub MCP to work:

```sh
# Generate token at: https://github.com/settings/tokens
# Needs: repo, read:org scopes

# Add to shell profile (~/.zshrc or ~/.bashrc)
export GITHUB_TOKEN="ghp_your_token_here"

# Reload shell
source ~/.zshrc
```

**Check:** Run `echo $GITHUB_TOKEN` - should show your token.

---

## Step 4: Install GitHub CLI

```sh
# macOS
brew install gh

# Authenticate
gh auth login

# Verify
gh pr list
```

**Check:** `gh pr list` shows your PRs (or empty list).

---

## Step 5: Test the Setup

### 5a. Test Slash Command

```sh
cd /path/to/your/project
claude
```

Then type: `/commit-push-pr`

Should show git status and recent commits.

### 5b. Test Auto-Format Hook

In Claude, ask it to edit any `.py` file. After edit, ruff should auto-run.

### 5c. Test GitHub MCP

Ask Claude: "list my open PRs on GitHub"

---

## Step 6: Install GitHub Action

In Claude Code, run:

```
/install-github-action
```

Follow prompts to enable @.claude PR reviews.

---

## Step 7: Set Up Parallel Workflow

1. Open iTerm2
2. Create 5 tabs (Cmd+T)
3. Rename tabs 1-5 (right-click → Edit Tab Title)
4. Run `claude` in each tab
5. Use notifications to know when each needs input

**Pro tip:** Also run sessions on https://claude.ai/code for 10+ parallel Claudes.

---

## Step 8: Learn Key Workflows

### Start in Plan Mode
Press `Shift+Tab` twice to enter plan mode before coding tasks.

### Use Opus 4.5
Run `/model` and select Opus 4.5 for best results.

### Verify Your Work
Always give Claude a way to verify (tests, browser, CLI output).

---

## File Reference

| File | Purpose |
|------|---------|
| `CLAUDE.md` | Project instructions for Claude |
| `.claude/settings.json` | Hooks + allowed commands |
| `.claude/commands/commit-push-pr.md` | Git workflow slash command |
| `.mcp.json` | MCP server configs |

---

## Use as Template for New Projects

### Method 1: GitHub Template (Recommended)
1. Click "Use this template" on GitHub
2. Clone your new repo
3. Run `./uv-init.sh` to set up dependencies

### Method 2: Manual Copy
```sh
# Copy template files to new project
cp -r .claude/ /path/to/new-project/
cp CLAUDE.md /path/to/new-project/
cp .mcp.json /path/to/new-project/
cp pyproject.toml /path/to/new-project/
cp .gitignore /path/to/new-project/

cd /path/to/new-project/
uv init  # Or use copied pyproject.toml
uv sync
```

### Method 3: Quick Script
```sh
cd /path/to/new-project/
/path/to/claude-code-setup/uv-init.sh
```

Then customize `CLAUDE.md` for project-specific notes.

---

## Whitelisted Commands Reference

Commands pre-allowed in `.claude/settings.json` (no permission prompts):

| Category | Commands |
|----------|----------|
| **Git** | `git:*` (all git operations) |
| **Utils** | `ls`, `tree`, `pwd`, `which`, `echo`, `date`, `wc`, `head`, `tail`, `diff` |
| **Python** | `python`, `python3`, `pip`, `pip3`, `ruff`, `pytest`, `mypy`, `uv`, `conda` |
| **Cloud** | `gh:*`, `aws:*`, `docker:*` |
| **K8s** | `kubectl get`, `kubectl describe`, `kubectl logs` (read-only) |

To add more, edit `.claude/settings.json`:
```json
"allowedCommands": [
  "your-command:*"
]
```

---

## Troubleshooting

### Ruff not running on edit
- Check: `which ruff` returns a path
- Check: `.claude/settings.json` exists in project root

### GitHub MCP not working
- Check: `echo $GITHUB_TOKEN` shows token
- Check: Token has `repo` scope
- Restart Claude session after setting token

### Slash command not found
- Check: `.claude/commands/` directory exists
- Check: File ends in `.md`

---

## Next Steps

- [ ] Add project-specific notes to `CLAUDE.md`
- [ ] Create custom subagents for your workflow
- [ ] Set up Confluence integration (if needed)
- [ ] Share `.claude/` configs with team via git

Commit message:

Enforce mandatory plan mode for coding tasks
Updated CLAUDE.md, SETUP_GUIDE.md, WORKFLOW.md, and tutorial.md to clarify that plan mode is required for all implementation tasks except trivial changes. Added detailed instructions and rationale for using plan mode to prevent wasted effort and improve code quality. Also fixed image paths in tutorial.md for consistency.

docs/SETUP_GUIDE.md, after:

# Boris Workflow Setup Guide

Step-by-step guide to set up the Boris Claude Code workflow for Python projects.

---

## Prerequisites

- [ ] Claude Code CLI installed (`claude` command works)
- [ ] Python 3.8+
- [ ] Git configured
- [ ] GitHub account

---

## Step 1: Install uv and Dependencies

```sh
# Install uv (fast Python package manager)
curl -LsSf https://astral.sh/uv/install.sh | sh

# Verify installation
uv --version

# Initialize project with dependencies
uv init
uv add --dev ruff pytest mypy

# Or sync from existing pyproject.toml
uv sync

# Verify installations
uv run ruff --version
uv run pytest --version
```

**Check:** Run `uv --version` - should show version number.

**Why uv?** 10-100x faster than pip, built-in virtual environment management, and lockfile for reproducible builds.

---

## Step 2: Set Up iTerm2 Notifications

1. Open iTerm2 → Preferences → Profiles → Terminal
2. Enable "Send notification when idle" or configure Shell Integration
3. See full guide: https://code.claude.com/docs/en/terminal-config#iterm-2-system-notifications

**Why:** Get notified when Claude needs input across 5 parallel tabs.

---

## Step 3: Configure GitHub Token

For GitHub MCP to work:

```sh
# Generate token at: https://github.com/settings/tokens
# Needs: repo, read:org scopes

# Add to shell profile (~/.zshrc or ~/.bashrc)
export GITHUB_TOKEN="ghp_your_token_here"

# Reload shell
source ~/.zshrc
```

**Check:** Run `echo $GITHUB_TOKEN` - should show your token.

---

## Step 4: Install GitHub CLI

```sh
# macOS
brew install gh

# Authenticate
gh auth login

# Verify
gh pr list
```

**Check:** `gh pr list` shows your PRs (or empty list).

---

## Step 5: Test the Setup

### 5a. Test Slash Command

```sh
cd /path/to/your/project
claude
```

Then type: `/commit-push-pr`

Should show git status and recent commits.

### 5b. Test Auto-Format Hook

In Claude, ask it to edit any `.py` file. After edit, ruff should auto-run.

### 5c. Test GitHub MCP

Ask Claude: "list my open PRs on GitHub"

---

## Step 6: Install GitHub Action

In Claude Code, run:

```
/install-github-action
```

Follow prompts to enable @.claude PR reviews.

---

## Step 7: Set Up Parallel Workflow

1. Open iTerm2
2. Create 5 tabs (Cmd+T)
3. Rename tabs 1-5 (right-click → Edit Tab Title)
4. Run `claude` in each tab
5. Use notifications to know when each needs input

**Pro tip:** Also run sessions on https://claude.ai/code for 10+ parallel Claudes.

---

## Step 8: Learn Key Workflows

### CRITICAL: Always Start in Plan Mode
**Default workflow:** Press `Shift+Tab` twice BEFORE giving any coding task.

**Use plan mode for:**
- ✅ Creating any PR (100% of the time)
- ✅ Adding features, even small ones
- ✅ Multi-file changes or refactors
- ✅ Bug fixes beyond single-line changes
- ✅ Performance optimizations
- ✅ Any code change affecting existing behavior
- ✅ When you're unsure what the best approach is

**Skip plan mode only for:**
- ❌ Single-line typo fixes
- ❌ Adding a single console.log for debugging
- ❌ Pure research/exploration questions

**Why this matters:** Plan mode prevents wasted implementation time. Claude will explore your codebase, understand existing patterns, and draft an approach for your approval. This 30-second planning step eliminates 5+ minutes of back-and-forth fixes from wrong implementations.

**Mental model:** Would you create a PR for this change? → Use plan mode.

### Use Opus 4.5
Run `/model` and select Opus 4.5 for best results.

### Verify Your Work
Always give Claude a way to verify (tests, browser, CLI output).

---

## File Reference

| File | Purpose |
|------|---------|
| `CLAUDE.md` | Project instructions for Claude |
| `.claude/settings.json` | Hooks + allowed commands |
| `.claude/commands/commit-push-pr.md` | Git workflow slash command |
| `.mcp.json` | MCP server configs |

---

## Use as Template for New Projects

### Method 1: GitHub Template (Recommended)
1. Click "Use this template" on GitHub
2. Clone your new repo
3. Run `./uv-init.sh` to set up dependencies

### Method 2: Manual Copy
```sh
# Copy template files to new project
cp -r .claude/ /path/to/new-project/
cp CLAUDE.md /path/to/new-project/
cp .mcp.json /path/to/new-project/
cp pyproject.toml /path/to/new-project/
cp .gitignore /path/to/new-project/

cd /path/to/new-project/
uv init  # Or use copied pyproject.toml
uv sync
```

### Method 3: Quick Script
```sh
cd /path/to/new-project/
/path/to/claude-code-setup/uv-init.sh
```

Then customize `CLAUDE.md` for project-specific notes.

---

## Whitelisted Commands Reference

Commands pre-allowed in `.claude/settings.json` (no permission prompts):

| Category | Commands |
|----------|----------|
| **Git** | `git:*` (all git operations) |
| **Utils** | `ls`, `tree`, `pwd`, `which`, `echo`, `date`, `wc`, `head`, `tail`, `diff` |
| **Python** | `python`, `python3`, `pip`, `pip3`, `ruff`, `pytest`, `mypy`, `uv`, `conda` |
| **Cloud** | `gh:*`, `aws:*`, `docker:*` |
| **K8s** | `kubectl get`, `kubectl describe`, `kubectl logs` (read-only) |

To add more, edit `.claude/settings.json`:
```json
"allowedCommands": [
  "your-command:*"
]
```

---

## Troubleshooting

### Ruff not running on edit
- Check: `which ruff` returns a path
- Check: `.claude/settings.json` exists in project root

### GitHub MCP not working
- Check: `echo $GITHUB_TOKEN` shows token
- Check: Token has `repo` scope
- Restart Claude session after setting token

### Slash command not found
- Check: `.claude/commands/` directory exists
- Check: File ends in `.md`

---

## Next Steps

- [ ] Add project-specific notes to `CLAUDE.md`
- [ ] Create custom subagents for your workflow
- [ ] Set up Confluence integration (if needed)
- [ ] Share `.claude/` configs with team via git
